-Abstract (Nathan)

We are looking to create a service portal type application. It serves its purpose in that many companies have not adopted a service portal, and they still keep records of appointments for them or specific employees on pen and paper on a calendar. This would allow a centralized way of partners and companies communicating. It would have two perspectives, the company and the partner's (or external company). 

The company view would allow employees to look names of others up, or themselves, to see what appointments have been planned with them and by who. It would provide addtional information pertaining to the appointment; the employee can accept or deny requests. 

The partner portal would allow partners to set up appointments with specific employees. They can do this by entering a date, which will be submitted with the required information for further review. It will also tell them if the time slot is already appointed for said employee.


-Starting from mentioning the pros and cons of phone reservation system. 

A pro of the phone reservation system is that the interaction is much more personal. It is easy to have a charismatic exchange between the company and the prospective partner. It is also an established way of booking appointments, having been a way to do so for decades. Having a physical copy for archival purposes is also extremely useful for effective cataloging.

The cons of such a system, which are remedied by our proposed project, are that it is much more cumbersome to call a company and book appointments. This may be due to availability of a clerk or secretary, or there may be multiple people trying to reach that person at the same time. Another con is that it is not possible to book appointments after hours, without sending a voicemail. This may cause the process of booking to become extremely elongated because once the voicemail is left, the secretary will have to reach you at the next best time, which may take a day to a week. Backups can also be provided with our proposed project, which, unless multiple copies are kept, is not possible without digital help and storing files in separate locations in case of a distaster. Lastly, our proposed solution is much more modern than legacy systems such as the call-in system. Customers expect a business to stay up to date with the latest technology, which is not always the case, thus our application comes in to remedy this issue.

-Describe the adventage of our system and how can it change the current setting. (Chen)

  Although there exist various pros for the traditional phone reservation system, we cannot ignore the cons that it can bring into our daily operation routine, especially when the era we are living in is created by a digital technological innovation, where efficiency, time management, and convenience are the top of our concerns. Most of all, the lack of survivability of such a system in the current world and the potential of the system when the era is moving towards a more technological tomorrow is rock-bottom. Our system, which introduced a form of digital reservation system can give entrepreneur and business management personnel a more clear insight into their daily operation, and a more clear view of the company operating routines in general. Moreover, it creates a platform that provides a more convenient and time-efficient procedure on the planning phase of operations, and give a sense of freedom to how the individuals want to control their own time in their timely manner.
  
  
  For instance, with the adaptation of a digital reservation system that provides a representation of an online calendar, the process of making settlement for a meeting time only requires the client to establish a conformation with the open time provided by the host, and with the acceptance of such request by the host, the settlement can be made in no time. However, with the traditional phone reservation system, such a procedure will require a minimum three-step: first, the client must establish a form of connection with the host, and this procedure has a chance of failure if the connection cannot be established. Second, once the connection between the two ends is established, the client must request the availability of the host and choose an appropriate time that suits both sides. Third, the host must conform to such a request in order to establish an agreement on the meeting time. Compare to the digital version of such procedure, additional time will be wasted on all three of the procedure, such as the time it takes to take the original connection, the time for the host to provide its availability, and the time for both side to come to a final agreement. When the digital service is adopted, the host can make its available time open to the public by posting it on an application, therefore the client has full control over the desired time, however, the time frame of the meeting is controlled by the host. Originally, such an application does not allow the host to reject or accept such requests, however, such a function is implemented within our system, which will be discussed shortly after. With the implementation of such a procedure, the time required to established a meeting time can be shorted magnificently compared to the traditional procedure, which provides a much convenient implementation that utilized modern technology to such concept. Nevertheless, such implementation provides additional client-side functions such as easy-cancellation, last-minute reversion, which could further enhance the flexibility of time and convenience to its user
  



-features of our current system and how is it different than the one's on the market(Nick)

Our application has several key features that allow it to be effective and easy to use. The first feature is the ability to view and interact with the application as an employee or a partner. Upon entering the application, users will be presented with a welcome page and a login box, and depending on their user type, upon logging in they will then see a dashboard for employees in the company or external partners. This feature is designed to separate functionality of the app based on the user-type. With separate portals, partners and employees will only see the information that matters to them without having to dig through many menu options.

The next key feature of our application is a company address book database that allows both employees and partners to find names and availability of other employees in the company. This is the backbone of our reservation/appointment system, and it allows users to find who they are looking for quickly and efficiently. Using this database, partners can quickly set up appointments with employees based on availability, and employees can see what appointments have been set up. This database will have the most current record of employees within the company. 

A third key feature of our application is a notification system for both partners and employees. This system will let employees know if they have an appointment request waiting to be approved. The alert should show up within the employee’s Request section, showing such information as the requestor’s name and what time they have requested. Similarly, for partners they will be notified if their request has been approved or declined by the employee they requested an appointment with. These notifications help to ensure requests are responded to in a timely manner. 

This system is simple yet practical in the way that it works, and it is much more intuitive than traditional appointment systems over the phone, by email, or using pen and paper. Requests can be approved and declined in real-time, from anywhere in the world. The system is always up to date, and users can be assured that they are seeing the most current employee availability records. It also offers a great way for users to keep track of all their future appointments, so scheduling is extremely easy.
